in Spain the outbreak continues to
spread fast there are now almost 14,000
confirmed cases with more than 600
deaths all hotels will close in Spain by
next Tuesday and the Foreign Office's
urged British holiday makers to return
home before then our Europe correspond
at Damien grammatica is in Madrid for us
tonight at Damien Sophie I'm talking
through to you from the very heart of
Madrid the city has about half of all
Spain's cases and this is the point the
axis at which the city's two biggest
avenues cross and look you could
practically walk down them now now here
they are starting to requisition hotels
the first one here in Madrid will be
taken over tomorrow by the government to
be used for hospital patients so they
can recover what's really concerning the
authorities their nightmare scenario is
that the virus has found its way into
care homes here where some of the most
at-risk populations can be found as we
saw when we visited one of the worst-hit
homes here in Madrid today inside this
Madrid care home a 120 elderly frail
residents and also now the virus in just
a week it's taken a terrible toll here
every day hearse is called each time
another resident has succumbed
from his home right across the street
Miguel Campo says he's watched the Vans
come and go 17 of them now from my
window I've seen them they put the body
bags inside and go tie that lead to the
crematorium they are trying to avoid any
risk of contamination so the care home
has been sealed off relatives - not
allowed inside even as their parents or
grandparents have been dying what's
happening now in Spain's the scenario
many fear kovat 19 spreading among the
most vulnerable today we watched as
Carlos Fuentes tried to get in to see
his mother
the last he'd heard she has no symptoms
this is her hey Zeus ah 89 years old
celebrating in the home last Christmas
with a staff member I couldn't get
inside he says I don't know what is
going on in there I just want news about
my mother when he tries to phone it's
constantly in volunteers at the care
home say there's been little assistance
for the staff trying to fight the virus
here because no one has yet come to
sanitize this place in the surrounding
streets people are hunkered down part of
what is now a nationwide confinement so
this is what you find now all across
Spain people shuttered inside their
houses communities that have fallen
silent because everyone is now acutely
conscious of the dangers posed by the
virus and only venturing out if it's
absolutely necessary Spain only imposed
these measures from last weekend but
given the virus's incubation period can
be up to two weeks cases continue to
rise fast another two and a half
thousand confirmed today
so police are now enforcing the lockdown
more vigorous
in Madrid they've begun handing out
fines to people who are outside without
a valid reason it all means a strange
quiet has fallen over the Spanish
capital a city stilled by the outbreak
here den chromatic as BBC News Madrid
well Italy is still the hardest hit
country in Europe with more than 35,000
cases the death toll has also surged
again in the last 24 hours by four
hundred and seventy five almost three
thousand people have died there in
Germany there have been over 12,000
cases and 28 deaths than tonight
Chancellor Angela Merkel has given an
unprecedented televised address
describing the virus as the country's
greatest challenge since the Second
World War
in a moment we'll speak to Jenny Hill in
Berlin but first let's speak to mark
learn in Rome and another terrible day
for Italy with this record rise in the
number of people who've died in just 24
hours yeah Sophie today's figures take
the number of deaths here just below
that of China the worst hit country and
likely to overtake it tomorrow but the
real total may be even higher because in
some nursing homes virus related deaths
deaths and not being recorded because
the sick there and not being tested now
in terms of the number of cases well
that is rising by about 13% now every
day compared to 23% a week ago so the
rate is slowing but there is an urgent
need to flatten the curve to help ease
the pressure on hospitals the worst-hit
hair area remains by far the north where
in some small towns mortuaries are being
used to store coffins and crematoria are
working 24 hours a day now in terms the
restrictions across the country italians
are on the whole still abiding by them
but the government is considering
whether to extend them even further
banning all outdoor activities including
for example going for a run or riding a
bicycle one final thought Sophie you see
those pictures and videos of British
supermarket aisles virtually empty that
is simply not happening here in Italy
there is virtually no panic buying
despite the fact that Italy's outbreak
is far more advanced at the moment than
that of Britain Italians are numb
Chaac but they are behaving generally
remarkably calmly and Jenny hill in
Berlin I mean Angela Merkel today giving
this extraordinary addressed in the
nation impressing on people that they
really must take this virus very
seriously yes Angela Merkel said that
the outbreak posed the greatest
challenge to German society since World
War two
now she addresses the nation every New
Year's Eve but not once not in 15 years
of leadership has she ever given a
televised statement like this one urging
Germans to take this seriously and to
abide by the restrictions which
currently limits so much of daily life
here and the number of cases here in the
last 24 hours
has risen by 30 percent the health
services though arguably among the best
resourced in Europe are scrambling to
prepare themselves there was an
extraordinary note today from the
government urging univer hospitals and
clinics to search their stores and their
basements for equipment which might now
come in handy economists are worrying to
today BMW the latest big company to
announce its going to shut down
production there are predictions that
the economy of this Europe's powerhouse
could shrink by as much as 5% Angela
Merkel today said that the restrictions
here in Germany have not been imposed
lightly but many fear the government
will yet have to go even further and
even as mrs. Merkel was urging her
citizens to keep their distance from one
other to try and save lives it emerged
that people living in a small town in
Bavaria have now found that they have
had a lockdown imposed on them they've
been confined to their homes Jenny Hill
in Berlin and mock loan in Rome thank
you both
president Trump says the United States
and Canada have agreed to close their
border to non-essential traffic as all
50 American states registered cases of
coronavirus for the first time mr. Trump
also said that he was sending a US Navy
hospital ship to New York the city worst
hit by the outbreak
North America correspondent Nick Brown
reports in New York right now the rush
hour is no more companies have been
ordered to keep at least half of their
employees at home a city known for its
infectious energy a city that likes to
boast it never even has to sleep is
experiencing a form of enforced
hibernation it's now ringed with
drive-through test centers as America's
largest conurbation has also become the
home to the country's largest
coronavirus outbreak and this hospital
ship will soon be setting sail for New
York Harbor as the city's medical
facilities are overwhelmed in the coming
weeks it will desperately need extra
beds today Donald Trump described
himself as a wartime president thank you
very much and continued to label Cove it
19 as the Chinese virus something he's
been forced to defend it's not racist at
all no not at all it comes from China
that's why comes from China or to be
accurate the virus is paralyzing the
American economy this was Wall Street
tonight and as part of a mammoth 1
trillion dollar stimulus package the US
government wants to give immediate cash
payments to all Americans to help them
through the crisis the Trump
administration has warned Congress that
unemployment could reach 20% if it fails
to act quickly that's almost double what
it was during the Great Recession that
started in 2008 and approaching the
figure from the depths of the Great
Depression in the 1930s at the 9/11
memorial there are no fresh flowers
anymore this sacred place inscribed with
the names of those who lost their lives
on September the 11th has also been
sequestered this has fast become a
global convulsion that looks like being
even more consequential another 21st
century crisis that separates the past
in the future into the before and the
after Nick Pratt BBC News New York